---
layout: post
title:  "reading the news"
date:   2019-12-10 21:15:39 -0800
excerpt: a thing (essay? rant?) i wrote about why i like to read the news and think people should
---
On reading the news: I know a lot of college students who don’t read the news because they don’t have the time, and a lot of others who do. Either way is fine – I’m not here to tell anyone they must read the news. But I want to figure out why I like to.

I like to build an understanding of the state of things in the world, even if these things are way beyond me in scale and scope. Even if they will likely never affect me and I will likely never affect them. It helps to me to contextualize my tiny experience in my tiny corner of the world and to recognize this tininess.

It also helps me to understand what I believe (in). Days roll by and turn into weeks which turn into months and years, and only in retrospect do scholars get to decide what mattered and what didn’t. The events that make up history are often so large that they seem way beyond the scope of one individual. But I like to think that I am like a fish in water – swimming in what will one day be history but too steeped in it to recognize it as such.

The news is a slice of history. Still vast in scale compared to me, but one elemental part of the big story. Slightly more accessible. And sometimes I get a whiff of history in the making in the news. And it helps me to see what change in the world will be remembered as positive and what will be seen as negative. It forces me to think about big things like values and beliefs and causes. It forces me out of my daily routine and my petty obsessions and demands some recognition of the fact that I am living through history and participating in it, that every day people of flesh and bone just like me choose to manifest good and evil and I can too – that there are causes worth fighting for, that there are problems left unsolved, that there are more valuable things I can do with my time than just secure my own prosperity.

Many people report that the news makes them pessimistic. I think it makes me more idealistic. Because it reveals that history is not mythology, is not abstraction, but is the collected action of real people who appeared in the news, likely, when their time came.

I’m rambling.

Another reason I like to read the news: it isn’t free. Real journalists – underpaid, overcaffeinated, sleep-deprived and ambitious – work hard to find sources, hunt leads, debate ethics, protect identities, check facts, edit copy, and make deadlines, so that the public can be informed. Maybe they do it out of the conviction that what they do is important for the health of democracy, which as _The Washington Post_ reminds us, “dies in darkness.” Maybe they do it because it’s a job. Regardless, they do it, and they often paint targets on their backs in doing so (whether this means risking petty office bullshit or beatings and torture).

I guess I’m romanticizing journalists. But how many other professions require daily introspection about the morality of the work? Journalists butt heads in meetings all the time over questions of journalistic integrity – whether the testimony of an anonymous source is worth the loss in credibility, whether interviewing a victim of cartel violence puts them at greater risk of retaliatory attacks, whether they can be certain that the allegations they are publishing aren’t libelous.

My point is that the articles in the news are the end product of a long process that is guided by conviction and integrity, and that kind of product is rare. To turn away from it because it isn’t always uplifting would be to trivialize the work of many and to ignore the beauty of their intentions in doing said work.

One thing I hear often about the news is that there’s nothing a reader can do about the injustices they read about, which makes reading a futile exercise. But this is misguided, I think. Being informed is doing something. Knowing is enough. Often, journalism is about giving a voice to people who don’t have it. Amplifying the story of an abused immigrant mother with all of the institutional prestige of the great _NEW YORK TIMES_ (all caps intended). Shining the light into the shadows to strip the perpetrators of their mystique and reveal them as what they are – humans, just humans. Among a readership of millions, there may be tens or even hundreds of people in a position to help.

And, sure, maybe I can’t take action re: every story I read. But the capacity for action begins with information. Probably I can’t do anything about some randomly chosen article. But if I don’t read it I rob myself of the chance, and reading it makes me better equipped to mobilize in the future. Maybe one day I will be among the ten or the hundred who can do something. And if not, I’m one of the millions who know that injustice has occurred and who recognize that it is injustice. That recognition is the beating heart of the common morality, the consensus of the people re: what is right and what is wrong. It moves the compass that guides a democracy. Being informed is part of being a responsible… citizen? Person?

The news isn’t always pretty because the world isn’t. But the news is a reflection of that worldly ugliness which arises from the darker natures of everyday people. To turn away from it because it is unpleasant would be to shirk the responsibility of introspection. It would be to shut out the voices of the less fortunate because they aren’t saying what I want to hear. It would be willful ignorance in exchange for artificial comfort. And that seems pretty cheap to me.
