---
layout: post
title:  "after school"
date:   2020-12-9 21:15:39 -0800
excerpt: thinking about big decisions again
---
Been thinking a little about who I am when the dust settles and school is over. I’m not sure I know. School has been all-encompassing for the past three and a half years. Becoming a new person. Workload, competition, fundamental difficulty -- crashing over me like ocean waves. First few months, trying to fight it off and failing. Finding it better to dive in head first. To submerge myself. It’s easier to adjust to it if you don’t fight it. There’s a beauty in that kind of full immersion, submission, giving in to. There’s a loss there, too -- a loss of self. Losing who you are to what you do. A price I was willing to pay during my time here. And now, shaking myself off and lifting my head, I wonder who I am. I guess I couldn’t lose the writing. That part of me was too precious to give up and too painful to abandon. Kept coming back to it, kept picking it up where I dropped it, kept thinking, “It can’t be worth it if I have to lose this.” Started taking classes in the department so that I could hold on to it even while submerged -- made it a series of deadlines and assignments like everything else. That kept me writing, and disguised it as pragmatism.

---

In the face of this incalculability sometimes the only answer is to guess. Sometimes another answer is to freeze, paralyzed by choice, and let the decision make itself one way or another. And so it goes, and so we go -- deciding, imperfectly, sub-optimally, and seeing where it takes us. The more big decisions I make the more I realize how arbitrary these decisions are. You can bite your fingernails down to the quick and make as many lists of pros and cons as you like, but sometimes these choices defy calculation, or butterfly-effect into too many what-ifs to tally. In these cases you can make locally optimal decisions using interest or gut feeling as a heuristic, and gather more data. But you can’t know for certain, or even with high probability. And that lack of certainty scares the hell out of me. I guess I used to think that people made such big decisions on solid foundation, that they knew what would happen when they went left instead of right. I guess that’s the impression people give when they talk about their lives in retrospect. But so much of that, I see now, is just making it fit. Is doing the human thing of finding a way. Maybe they should have gone right, and it would have opened a world of possibility. But instead they went left and made the most of it, and twenty years later they look back and say, “I always knew I should have gone left. That’s where the growth was, you see.”
