---
layout: post
title:  "birds"
date:   2020-12-10 21:15:39 -0800
excerpt: a freewrite about the birds in berkeley
---
The barred world through the slats of my blinds. The gray sky; the black tree against the gray sky. The light filtering in green-tinted around the window frame. The rumbling of the construction trucks, the rumbling of their engines. The soft music coming in through my headphones; now the groaning of pistons on a dump truck and the clatter of its load coming down on the packed earth of that construction site.

I wonder where the birds go when they fly up from the hanging tree across the parking lot; I wonder what it looks like to them, Berkeley. They flit upward and hang over Telegraph, watching the students march up and down the sidewalks, watching the cars whip through intersections and bank close to the sidewalks on turns, almost bowling people over. They watch the homeless men raise fists at passersby and the spitting people in the park throw stones and spray each other with the water hoses. They watch the police stop by some alley and peer in, find some misbegotten wanderer down and out on their luck and haul them into the back of the squad car like poachers. They watch the hungry dogs across from the hotel construction site loping down the alley by Berkeley Thai House, sniffing for scraps. The wind blows them back and they flap to stay in place. From up here the city is a quiet whirlwind. They are too far up to hear the chattering of the teeth and the gnawing on bones and the hollering of the homeless men and the honking of cars and the scrape of the orange-suited Telegraph Ambassadors’ brooms on the unwashed pavement. It must be beautiful in its quickness. Startling and stark in the way that a sunset is. Violent, too. Horribly so. But in a quiet way that they probably can’t understand. The struggle for life and will and achievement -- the little battles playing out in every person’s mind as they wait, knees jittering, for their coffee, or push past the slow walkers on the sidewalk, or cross the street a few seconds before the light changes just to get home a little bit faster. Probably they wonder what the big deal is; probably they wonder what the hurry is; probably they wonder why we are leaving our scraps on the pavement. They wing down and alight on an electric wire or the edge of some apartment building roof to watch more closely. Now they can hear the grim focus.
