---
layout: post
title:  "good life"
date:   2020-3-20 21:15:39 -0800
excerpt: an informal essay i wrote for a friend who asked in a group chat for everyone to send him their definition of what constitutes a life well lived (spoiler alert — i don't know)
---

#### What do you believe makes for a life well lived, and what are the ways in which your actions do (or don’t) align with that overarching purpose?

It’s hard to come up with an exhaustive definition of the good life. It’s all approximate. There is always something lost by putting intangibles into words, and it’s pointless to go about fiddling with semantics and qualifying statements in pursuit of exactitude because that could go on indefinitely. All of this is to say that everything that follows is reductionist to some degree. But here goes. If I had to identify what I think makes for a life well lived I would say there are two components: fulfilling relationships and fulfilling work.

The Oxford Dictionary defines fulfilling as “making someone satisfied or happy because of fully developing their character or abilities.” I define fulfilling as “making someone satisfied or happy by fostering progress in developing their character or abilities.” No one is ever fully developed, but that which is fulfilling to me encourages (or even guarantees) a sense of continual development. The things in my life that are fulfilling force me to move forward. They deny me the chance to stagnate.[^1]

By fulfilling work, I mean work that engages me, that challenges me and gives me a sense that there are mountains left to climb and that these mountains are worth climbing. I think challenge is important to me because it makes me unhappy to ever feel that I’ve plateaued or that I’ve used my time poorly. I take a lot of pleasure from learning every day, and from looking back on each year in wonder at how much I have grown. This pleasure is what I demand from fulfilling work in return for my time. Maybe this definition comes close to that of a passion.

I hope that I find multiple sources of fulfilling work in my life. Hobbies, sports, and careers are all types of work, and they are fulfilling so long as they make me feel that I’m becoming a better or more whole person through them.

Ideally, my sense of individuality or identity feeds into my work and vice versa. Not in that I define myself by my work, but in that I see my work as an expression of self. In _The Communist Manifesto_ Marx talks about how the problem with work under industrial capitalism is that it is soulless. In contrast, the independent craftsperson (say, a shoemaker) puts some sense of their identity into their products. Their shoes are a form of self-expression. Only they can produce their particular shoes. I’m no goddamned Commie. But fulfilling work should have this sense of entanglement with my individuality.

By fulfilling relationships, I mean relationships that make me feel happy and whole and comfortable, sure, but I also mean relationships that foster that sense of progress by which I defined fulfillment. A fulfilling relationship is one that challenges me to be better, to step outside of my comfort zone, and to understand different ways of viewing the world or interacting with people. This implies that fulfilling relationships should often be with people who are very different from me.

I could further divide relationships into the romantic, the core friendships, and the peripheral friendships – all of which I think are important. The romantic, or love, gives life some of its spark. It makes it exciting. A fulfilling love is one that isn’t just exciting for its novelty or for the potential energy it represents before it is realized (because these things fade after a while). It is exciting because the other person is a constant source of novelty. They see the world in a way that is refreshing or surprising to me again and again, and because of this I learn to see the world newly.

The core friendships in my life grant me a sense of being truly known and of having unconditional support. Just like good romantic partners, they are a constant source of novelty, and hopefully I am a source of novelty to them. This implies that we are often introducing each other to new ways of viewing things, and as such, a certain level of open discussion and disagreement is a good sign of a healthy close friendship. These people are the family I choose and I'm lucky to have them.

The peripheral friends are the people I see once in a while or maybe only in certain settings, and while they contribute less to my happiness than my core friends, they still add to my life. They give me a sense of being socially engaged, of being open to new social opportunities, and of always having a rich social frontier that changes and adapts. Core friends often start as peripheral friends, which is what makes this frontier exciting. Having these people around encourages me to develop socially rather than stagnating. It also gives me a sense that I am a member of a bigger community.

Regarding how these components contribute to an “overarching purpose,” I would say that both fulfilling relationships and fulfilling work are sources of both purpose and meaning. But I want to draw a distinction between purpose and meaning. Purpose, to me, is an animating force. It’s a reason to get up in the morning. Fulfilling work is primarily a source of purpose, because it is a source of everyday action in pursuit of a long-term goal. Meaning is a found thing. It’s interpreted. Fulfilling relationships are primarily sources of meaning, because the people we surround ourselves with lend us their worldviews, philosophies, and methods of reconciling the irreconcilable in life. Of course, these two forces are entangled. Meaning arises from purpose: there is no intrinsic meaning to life for me, only the meaning we make. And purpose facilitates that making of our own meaning because it propels us down some path and determines which world we see. To use a tired analogy, if life is a series of crossroads, purpose determines the turns we make, and meaning is what we make of those turns. It informs what we make of the sights we see as we travel. A rich sense of meaning is a good indicator that one has purpose.

How do I see myself as enacting this vision of the good life? I’m working on it. I’m learning how to find fulfilling work and fulfilling relationships both. I’m not sure how I’m doing and I’m definitely not sure where I’m going. But I’m making progress, slowly, and given that this is a sign of fulfillment, I’d say that I’m on the right track.

[^1]: The terms “guarantee,” “force me,” and “deny me” may be too strong. Under these definitions, fulfillment is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for goodness, because overwork, for example, forces you to make progress but I wouldn’t consider it good. Fulfillment in this case is a sort of lower bound and requires a matching upper bound – though maybe overwork undoes progress in the realm of character development and is therefore by definition not fulfilling. I’m not sure.
