---
layout: post
title:  "acid"
date:   2020-12-1 21:15:39 -0800
excerpt: the beginnings of a scene i freewrote for fun
---
{:dc: style="text-align: center"}
{:paren: style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;"}
{:act: style="text-align: right; font-style: italic;"}

SCENE 1

An auditorium -- on stage, a panel of professors chairing a research symposium. Fred, a presenting undergraduate, has just finished his presentation. He shakes a few professors' hands. He steps off stage and takes his seat in the audience. He turns to his friend Dylan with his mouth agape. His mic is still on.
{:act}
FRED
{:dc}
Are you seeing this shit?
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
What?
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
Jesus Christ.
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
Ohhh, shit! You’re tripping sack.
{:dc}
Laughter in the audience. Confusion among the panelists.
{:act}
FRED
{:dc}
I don't know how the fuck I made it through that. That tab is kicking my ass up and down the astral plane.
{:dc}
The professors catch on. They try to get Fred's attention but he doesn't notice.
{:act}
DYLAN
{:dc}
You seeing things?
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
My mind is a speaker and God’s on aux.
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
I don’t even know what that means.
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
I’m riding a dreamcatcher in the sixth dimension through the Late Cretaceous.
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
Late! The Late Cretaceous!
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
No, I know!
{:dc}
An administrator comes on stage from the wings.
{:act}
ADMINISTRATOR
{:dc}
Uhh--
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
I swear, any great thinker who denies mysticism or spirituality has never dropped acid.
{:dc}
ADMINISTRATOR
{:dc}
Mr. Thomas--
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
(twirling a finger around his temple)
{:paren}
In here? Interdimensional whale song.
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
The fuck?
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
Like Dory from Finding Nemo? Awooooooo! Except she’s a multistellar omniscient life form.
{:dc}
ADMINISTRATOR
{:dc}
Could we fix Mr. Thomas’s mic?
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
I’m in the bookshelf room from Interstellar shaking hands with the librarian. Spiritually.
{:dc}
DYLAN
{:dc}
You’re talking spiritual handshake?
{:dc}
FRED
{:dc}
It doesn’t have hands.
{:dc}
